>>JAY DYER: Is there a deeper,
hidden, more esoteric meaning
behind the Hollywood films
that we all love to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>JAY WEIDNER: And
I'm Jay Weidner.
And this is "Hollywood Decoded."
[THEME MUSIC]
So we chose these two
movies, "The Last Mimzy"
and "9," because
they both came out
around the same time period.
They're both ostensibly
children's films--
although I don't
think they really are.
And finally, they have
very similar plots.
In "The Last Mimzy,"
the scientist
sends an object into the past
to save his world, his dystopian
world.
And in "9," the scientist
sends something into the future
to save his dystopian world.
Again, both movies are
very similar, but one,
I think "9" is a little more
deeper than "The Last Mimzy,"
but I think "The Last Mimzy"
still is important enough
for us to make at least
a brief comment on it.
>>DYER: Yeah, I
think that you're
right that they're very similar.
They both have the same
patterns, the same themes.
They're looking at reality
from a Platonic, Pythagorean
and almost, at times, Gnostic.
Especially with
"9," we get the idea
of the original creator being,
again, this one, this monad,
this unifying source.
In this case, it's a
human being who creates,
and then these entities
that are mechanical
are lacking their soul.
In contrast, in
"The Last Mimzy,"
you have human beings
that are warned
about an ecological
disaster in the near future.
And so what they
have to do is, again,
find their soul to avoid a
toxic and transhumanist future.
If you noticed, at the
end of "The Last Mimzy,"
everybody's having to wear
these exoskeleton suits
that protect them from a toxic
environment due to contaminated
DNA.
So both stories are
apocalyptic, basically.
But they also present
hope and, again,
the avoidance of the
apocalypse through, again,
operating in wisdom.
We are so focused on
knowledge in our era,
and collecting facts
and data, but it really
doesn't aid us unless
we are wise in the way
that we use this data.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
Wisdom is taking knowledge
and then combining it
into a newer form.
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: And I think that
there's both Buddhist concepts,
Gnostic concepts,
Pythagorean concepts,
sacred geometry concepts,
and this kind of--
like the grandfather
paradox of time,
having to go back to get DNA
to save the future, which
is what the movie's about.
>>DYER: Right, right.
>>WEIDNER: So
these two kids find
this rabbit on the beach up
in the Pacific Northwest.
And this rabbit, we later
discover, has deep circuitry.
It's an AI, it's a form of AI.
And these kids
discover it, and they
begin getting superpowers from
this stuffed rabbit, which
is Mimzy.
And the boy, Noah,
and the girl, Emma,
who are brother
and sister, begin
taking on these superpowers.
And also, Noah begins
drawing Sri Yantras
and other sacred
geometrical forms,
and he really doesn't
understand what he's doing
or where it's coming
from, but it's clearly
coming from the last
Mimzy, this stuffed rabbit.
And eventually, he
becomes a genius because
of his interactions with it.
And then he designs
the machine that
will send the DNA
into the future, which
was the whole point of the
experiment throughout the film.
The scientist who made
the last Mimzy wanted
some pure, innocent
people to find it--
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: --capture
that DNA, and then
send it into the future.
>>DYER: Yeah, it's based
on the Adam and Eve myth.
And so you've got
Adam and Eve, and then
regular humanity that
expand from them.
And then we need a new
Adam and a new Eve.
And so the two,
brother and sister,
are actually going to
function in that capacity.
Noah's going to be, in a
way, like Noah from Genesis
8, the Noah's ark story.
He's going to be the engineer.
He's going to help his sister,
who is the feminine archetype.
She's more intuitive.
She has these separate
powers from him.
He has certain powers,
like telekinesis,
and he can open these portals.
And what's interesting
is that it's
done through the
idea of the yantra,
an Ancient Indian philosophy.
This is the idea that certain
forms, geometrical forms,
can actually tap
into other planes.
And it also connects to
vibrations and sounds,
which is why he has the ability
to speak to bugs and insects,
and move them around.
And it's all done
through vocal intonation.
So what Noah does is tap
into higher frequencies.
And I believe that it is true
that these different levels
of reality that we
experience, they
do happen at different
vibrations or frequencies.
And so that aspect
of the movie I
found interesting,
very fascinating.
>>WEIDNER: Me too.
>>DYER: So what's going
on here is the pooling
of both the rational, and
scientific, analytical left
brain in the character of
Noah in his engineering.
And then we have
the more intuitive,
the right brain, the
creativity on the part of Emma.
And so she's functioning
like a new Eve,
a new mother of humanity.
That's what her role is going
to be at the end of the film.
She's described as the new Eve,
the new mother of the world.
He's the new Adam, in a way.
So I like that we have this
balance between the right brain
and the left brain, between
analytical and intuitive,
creative thinking.
And that's the most positive
aspect to this film, I think,
is that when they're
faced with the raid
by Homeland Security,
and these different FBI
agents, and whatnot,
they don't understand
that there are people that are
gifted, there are people that
are geniuses, indigo
children, that
are way ahead of
this sort of base,
or governmental
control type thinking.
And I like that
aspect of the film,
that they're actually
giving credence to--
the only way that we're
going to move ahead
in the world, progress
truly, is by listening
to these spiritually
gifted people.
>>WEIDNER: These
archetypes are also
reflected in the teacher
and his girlfriend, who
discover Emma and Noah.
He's a science teacher.
He's a rational.
She's a Buddhist.
She meditates.
>>DYER: Good point.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
she understands it
before he understands it,
because she understands the Sri
Yantra and what it really means.
And he just is familiar
with the imagery.
He's not familiar with the
intrinsic symbology of the Sri
Yantra, but she is.
And then they go to try
to tell their parents
about their gifted kids.
And of course, the
parents rejected them
and say it's not true.
>>DYER: As an example
of that, let's look
at the clip, "How did
you do that, Noah?"
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[WHIRRING]
We have this idea in
ancient Platonism--
the fundamental fabric
and structure of reality
is actually psyche
or ideal forms.
And so it does have a pattern.
It does have a structure.
And what you're
seeing in this image
is the interconnectedness of
all these forms, these objects.
They appear to be
separate, but they actually
have an underlying
structure that unifies them.
And so what's happening is that
he's tapping into that unity.
And he's able to, by
thought, move this object
to another location.
And so really, time and
space are, in the film,
presented as somewhat relative.
They're really relative to our
perception of those relations.
[BOOM]
[GASP]
- Huh.
[GIGGLE]
What did I just do?
- How'd you do that, Noah?
- I don't know.
With my brain?
I just looked at it,
and it disappeared.
[WHOOSH]
[SQUEAL]
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DYER: So in Indian
philosophy, you
have this idea of
the yantra, which
is a spiritual technology.
It's revelatory of deeper
metaphysical truths,
you might say.
So what we have is that
there's a conceptual loom.
So when I'm talking about
the forms or the underlying
structure, there's
a relationship
between all objects, and
it's mapped out, in a way.
As we're going to see when we
talk about "9," for example,
the works of Paracelsus.
He talks about a matrix.
He's writing this
back in the 1500s.
And he says that all reality
is connected and birthed out
of this primal matrix.
So in the same way, I think
Ancient Indian philosophy had
some prototypical
notion of this,
that all objects can,
therefore, be accessed,
or their essence is tapped into,
by these different frequencies.
This is something that
Tesla tapped into.
This is how he figured out
that certain notes could
break glass.
So that that
frequency is actually
disrupting the molecules
in the structure of glass.
And I think that all of
these ideas are connected.
And it all goes
back to what we've
seen in ancient philosophy,
ancient religion,
the idea of everything
being connected
in this metaphysical sense.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
Noah uses sound--
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: --to
manipulate matter.
And we know from the works
of Hans Jenny in cymatics
that we can make geometric
forms using frequencies.
[HIGH FREQUENCY NOTE PLAYING]
[HIGHER NOTE PLAYING]
>>DYER: Right.
And they learn the
sacred geometry in this
from their dream state,
which is interesting.
Like in Ancient
Indian philosophy,
the waking state is just as
important as the dream state.
So the outer world is what you
experience in the waking state.
The inner world is
the dream state.
And in both, what
connects the two,
according to Carl Jung and even
the physicist Wolfgang Pauli,
is archetypes.
Both of those worlds are
connected through archetypes.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah,
and the archetype
for the rabbit, the last Mimzy
is, of course, the White Rabbit
in Alice in Wonderland.
>>DYER: Yeah, exactly.
>>WEIDNER: And there's a
direct connection to the film.
>>DYER: Yeah, it's
referenced, right?
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, so
let's watch that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Why are you showing me that?
- It's about Alice going
through the looking glass.
I think it explains
what the machine is.
- Wait a minute.
That looks like Mimzy.
How could she have Mimzy?
That was a hundred years ago.
- Maybe she has
spinners too, Noah.
Maybe she didn't get what
she was supposed to do.
Maybe she needed a
brother like you.
- Like me?
What for?
- Because you're my engineer.
- What do you mean
your "engineer"?
- I mean I can't do
it all alone, Noah.
Noah, I have to look.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DYER: So we have
the direct reference
to "Alice and the
Looking Glass."
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: And that
is oftentimes read
as something related to MKUltra,
but it's not necessarily
about that.
It is at times,
but in the context
here, it's about seeing into
other planes of existence,
other levels of reality,
other metaphysical dimensions.
And that's exactly
what's happening here.
She's considering
the possibility
that the world that
she's presented with
is not necessarily
the true reality.
And I love the contrast between
the children and their parents.
The parents are caught
up in the mundane.
They initially are very
hostile to the children.
They don't want anything
to do with this.
They want to stop their
children from looking
deeper into the rabbit
hole and so forth.
But she's willing to
do it with her brother.
They have the male and the
female principles united there.
And that's ultimately
what saves humanity,
is this union that we've
been talking about.
And I like, also, that the
film even explicitly mentions
Platonic solids.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: I took philosophy
classes in college,
and we did Plato, and we didn't
talk about Platonic solids.
Now why is that?
I think it's because
it suppresses the truth
that the world around
us is not dead matter,
it's actually built
up, as I've said,
of geometrical forms and
principles, which shows not
just the union of all
things, but that there's
some actual creative source
from which all things come.
>>WEIDNER: And that geometry
is the underlying matrix
of our reality, which is why
mathematics is so important.
Speaking of mathematics,
Mimzy, the rabbit,
has a [INAUDIBLE]
spiral on it, which
is the symbol of
transiting between worlds,
and how nature unfolds,
unpacks itself.
>>DYER: Right, the
Fibonacci sequence.
>>WEIDNER: The Fibonacci series.
And we see it in
this next scene where
Emma gives the future
her DNA, and she becomes
the mother of the future.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I don't want Mimzy to die.
- Mimzy's not going to die.
[CRYING]
>>WEIDNER: Emma has given
her DNA to the Mimzy,
and now the mission is
pretty much complete.
Now the Mimzy just has to
go back into the future,
and they can
reinvigorate the DNA.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DYER: Yeah, it's interesting
that the film functions
as a warning about
genetic modification.
That comes up more
than once in the film.
They talk about contaminating
the genetic code with GMO.
>>WEIDNER: Mm-hmm.
>>DYER: And so she functions
as this savior figure
by her tear going
into the future,
and, therefore, returning
some pure genetic lineage.
That's, I think, a
prescient warning.
I think that's one of the
ways that we can possibly
assess this film, that
genetic modification can
be a serious danger.
We don't know what the effects
of releasing GMO salmon
into the waters is going to be.
>>WEIDNER: No, we don't.
>>DYER: We're actually
doing this stuff.
So I think we need
to pay attention
to these kinds of warnings.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and there
is, of course, early on,
the scene where the science
professor is showing
the kids the two-headed snake.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>WEIDNER: It's the hydra.
The hydra is this
mutant reptile.
And I think that was
very indicative of what
they're trying to
say in this movie
about genetic modification.
And the plot of the movie
is that the dystopian future
has been created by
genetic modification.
>>DYER: Exactly.
Our precious quality
of humanity has
been turned off, as we'll
see in this next scene.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Our precious quality of
humanity had been turned off.
But in Emma's tears was the
instruction for an awakening.
And it spread like wildflowers.
People shed their
protective suits.
And over time, humanity
blossomed again.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>WEIDNER: Well, that really
shows the Adam and Eve
theme there.
>>DYER: Absolutely.
If we go back to the
great German idealist
philosopher, Hegel, one
of his important concepts
is alienation.
And what we see here
is the alienation
of not just humans
amongst one another,
but alienation from
man and nature.
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
>>DYER: That was a
fundamental concept for Hegel
because he felt that modernity
was moving towards alienation,
principally through technology.
That technology
would have that force
of alienating us and nature.
And I think he's been proven
right about that, whatever one
thinks of Hegel's philosophy.
And here, what we're
seeing is humans
that actually have taken on
non-human characteristics.
They look like bugs.
They look alien.
They're basically wearing
transhumanist exoskeletons
to even survive in
their environment.
And as a result,
presumably, they
can't have natural
intercourse or interrelations.
And so because of
the restoration
of the genetic lineage, they're
able to shed these bugs suits.
And we move back
towards an Edenic state.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, I think
we've been constantly talking
about these themes
through this series,
about the natural
state as opposed
to the transhumanist state.
And I think a lot
of these movies
are warning us about
the transhumanism,
and that going back into nature,
like "Avatar," like the people
in the future in this
film, where they're
living in a natural
state, I think
that's exactly the message.
>>DYER: Yeah, it has an
"X-Men" type message too,
that there is so much in human
potentiality that the question
is really, how are
we going to use it?
It's not whether we
can do these things,
whether we can develop
these abilities,
but will it be used wisely?
And that's really
the key question
as to how to avert destruction.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
Alchemy is really a
combination of science,
and mythos, and symbol.
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: And I
think that alchemy
is, in some ways, the opposite
of the hard tech future,
even though they both
seem to be heading
towards the same direction.
Hard tech is trying
to make us immortal.
Alchemy promises to
make you immortal.
And I think in the next film
that we're talking about,
"9," this really
is a combination
of alchemy and science.
>>DYER: Absolutely.
>>WEIDNER: Brilliantly,
I think, presented.
A very, very much
underrated movie.
I think "9" is one of the
more interesting movies
of the early 2000s.
And so "9" is a
story of another,
again, dystopian future where
the world has been taken over
by transhumanism and machines.
>>DYER: Right.
>>WEIDNER: An AI has been
invented by a scientist
and has gotten out of control.
And he knows that he screwed up,
so he invents nine golem-like
creatures that he sends--
that go into the
future after he dies
to save the world from the
machine intelligence that
has taken over the world.
>>DYER: Yeah, it's interesting.
This is a very sophisticated
allegory, which we don't often
see in children's movies.
It's pretty, most of
the time, on the surface
what the movie's about.
Here, it's a very,
very esoteric allegory,
influenced by Gnosticism,
influenced by Platonism,
and influenced by
Paracelsus, who I've never
seen Paracelsus
referenced in a movie
before, especially
not a kids' movie.
But it actually spurred
me on to go and read
the works of Paracelsus.
So that's a big key to
understanding this film.
But before we get to
the esoteric stuff,
we want to look at the
AI control mechanism that
has taken over the planet.
And it's actually
depopulated, right?
The humans are gone.
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
>>DYER: There's only,
as you mentioned,
these golem-like creatures
who are missing their soul.
And so just like
the Gnostic myths,
the message of this
movie is the regaining
of the soul, that
inner quality that's
been lost through
the tech [INAUDIBLE]..
So let's look at that clip.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- That's it.
>>DYER: What we're
being shown here
is the inability of a
tech-controlled future
to create the utopia
that it promises.
And this is really
a message that
we've seen throughout history,
is that utopian promises don't
deliver what they preach.
>>WEIDNER: Never.
>>DYER: It almost always ends
in some kind of dystopia.
It ends in tyranny.
And here, we have
this fascist regime
that worships the idea
of AI running everything.
[WHIRRING]
- Today, the
chancellor presented
the latest advancement
of technological wizardry
to the public.
- Comrades, today
dawns a new era.
Let us praise this
new technology.
Welcome to the age
of the machine.
It will create new machines
in its own image, machines
of peace that will usher in
a glorious new era of wealth
and prosperity for the state.
- Residents are advised to
pause for a public address.
[GUNFIRE]
- Science has turned its
sinister hands against us.
People of our mighty
state, join me
in repelling the iron
fist of the machine.
[CLICK]
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DYER: A lot of
the modern writers,
like Bertrand Russell,
HG Wells, they really
thought that we could
create this tech-run utopia,
but I don't think that
it's going to work.
And I think that that's
one great warning here
in this film.
Once again, that AI
cannot run our future.
We're free beings with
will, with volition.
We have to be in charge
of our destinies.
We can't hand it over to
some giant computer matrix.
>>WEIDNER: That's
very interesting,
because in the early 1970s,
Zbigniew Brzezinski and David
Rockefeller created something
called the Trilateral
Commission.
And what the
Trilateral Commission
was doing, what it tried to
do, and is still trying to do,
was do an end to
run-around politics
and make technology run our
system, not politicians.
And they're creating this
dystopian future right now,
where the politicians don't know
what the technocrats are really
making.
>>DYER: Mm-hmm.
>>WEIDNER: The technocrats
aren't being watched,
so we don't know
what they are making.
They could be making
something that we're
seeing right here in this film,
an out-of-control AI system,
and they probably are.
>>DYER: Right.
The film explicitly, as we
said, references Paracelsus.
And that's important because he
wasn't just a Hermetic doctor
and philosopher.
He also formulated his medicinal
and metaphysical theories
based on ancient Platonic views.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>DYER: And what that
led him to theorize
was that the world is
actually birthed out
of some sort of primal matrix.
And he uses that
term in his credo.
Like I said, I went
and read Paracelsus.
I was blown away
because that refers
not just to living
creatures, but it also
refers to the ideas that
would be behind computers.
So Leibniz and Paracelsus
would actually be instrumental
in the formation of
the computer over time,
because it's all based on
Platonism and Pythagorean.
So there's at once a
healthy, healing message
that comes out of Paracelsus.
The misuse of it
can then also be
turned into this
creation of the tech,
and ultimately, the golem.
And as you said,
these creatures,
which are aspects of the
original creator's psyche,
he says that he endowed
each of these entities
with some aspect of his being.
There's nine of them.
This goes right back
to Egypt, the Ennead,
which is the nine principal gods
of Egypt, and then the 10th,
right?
This is the tetractys that
Pythagoras talked about.
And it's all about
regaining the soul.
The dominance of tech and AI
means the loss of the soul.
So the creatures are
on their mystical quest
to regain their soul.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, and
Gurdjieff also broke the soul
into nine aspects.
And I think it's
interesting also
because the aspects are
the archetypes that we've
been talking about in
all these other shows.
We have the leader.
We've got the warrior.
We've got the people that
are just watching the world
and taking it in.
And we've got our hero.
And again, just like
in "Lord of the Rings,"
the smaller, little figures are
the ones that save the world
from the gigantic machines.
>>DYER: What we're going to see
in this next clip is that, just
like in some of the other
episodes we've done,
the answer to our problems
is found in the past,
in these ancient myths,
these ancient allegories,
these ancient stories,
religions, philosophies.
They have a common
underlying theme
and pattern that leads us
back to some beginning,
some starting point,
from which we were made
in the image of some creator.
And that's what we're actually
going to see in this film.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[CLATTER]
[GASP]
- Huh.
What-- what is it?
- The source.
- The thing that
woke the machine.
- Go back.
Go back.
- Back to where?
- Dark science.
What good does this
useless rubbish do us?
Forget it.
- You know something.
What do you know?
- I know enough to leave their
ancient evils to moulder.
Look what they've left us with.
Leave it be, I say.
But you, always
asking questions,
so many pointless questions,
probing, pushing, like 2.
He always had to know.
Too much.
- I was right.
You did send him out to die.
- He was old.
He was weak.
[GASP]
Sometimes, one
must be sacrificed
for the good of many.
- You coward!
- 7.
- Hmph.
Your path takes
us to catastrophe.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DYER: What we have here is the
idea of this original creator
in the story being an
entity or a human who
endues these golems with nine
different aspects of his psyche
or his mind.
And so there's a very
fascinating psychology here,
which, again, is based on
the writings of Paracelsus.
You notice, in the
Latin, it was written
"Transmutation of life."
>>WEIDNER: Biotransfer.
>>DYER: It is possible
to transmute life,
to create life, and
so forth, in some way.
But here, as we've seen,
it's all been lost.
The soul has been lost.
And that's the
important aspect here,
is that even if we were
to create some being,
it's still inferior to who we
are because we have the will,
we have volition,
we have a spirit.
And these beings don't
have spirit until the end.
They do eventually recover
their divine spark,
their inner spirit.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, the
scientist invents the AI
through hard technology.
And then it looks like he
has to resort to alchemy
to solve the original problem.
So he creates the
problem of runaway AI,
and then he goes to
Paracelsus to figure out
how to create the golems
that he can send out
into the world to save the world
from the AI that he invented.
So on one hand, he's using
dark science, the black arts,
to make the technology.
And then on the other
side, he's using alchemy
to solve the original problem.
>>DYER: Yeah.
What we're going to see
is that the AI is directly
from the left brain
and analytical side.
And in fact, it's even
mentioned that this
was born of his intellect.
So therefore, it's lacking
heart, it's lacking soul.
That's the whole
point of the movie.
And that's the
key to this scene.
"Machine was born
purely of my intellect."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Greetings, 9.
It had such promise,
my great machine.
It was meant to be an instrument
of progress, of creation.
That was the agreement our
chancellor failed to honor.
Though the fault is
hardly his alone to bear.
The machine was born purely
of my intellect, which I now
know was not enough.
My creation was hopelessly
flawed and indeed dangerous,
for it lacked the human soul
and could be easily corrupted
by those who controlled it.
That is why I am
making each of you.
You are all that's
left of humanity.
You are all the
pieces of my soul.
>>DYER: One of the
things that Paracelsus
talked about in his writings
was the fact that God created us
out of clay, out of the
matter of the Earth,
and that without His spirit
being breathed into us,
we're just husks.
>>WEIDNER: Mm-hmm.
>>DYER: And so that's really
the message of this film,
is that they find their
self, their higher
self, their true unity, when
they get back to their source.
And they find where
their origins were,
and that gives them, then, a
map or a roadway of how to live
and how to be in the future,
because they've discovered,
ultimately, freedom.
And this synthetic determinism
that results from the AI
is what was impossible.
It didn't bring what
it promised, the utopia
that it promised.
It brought nothing but a
hive-like Borg existence.
And so they finally free
themselves from this
and find their soul.
And I think that that's
a perennial message
that we can all take away.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, it was
a really good ending.
The matrix that Paracelsus
is talking about
is associated with that clay.
In other words, when he's
talking about that matrix,
he's saying that the
matrix is both part of us
and separate from us.
And that we can use
that matrix to perform
our alchemical experiments.
>>DYER: Mm-hmm.
>>WEIDNER: And truly,
the matrix is the clay.
It's the stuff that
makes this world.
>>DYER: It's the prima materia
that Aristotle talked about,
which is that
first-formed matter.
And then God the
Creator then forms it
into some being or some object.
But it's still not anything
without the breath of life
that comes from Him.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And at the end, the
creatures are finally
imbued with the creative
soul, and they ascend up
into the stars.
>>DYER: Exactly.
>>WEIDNER: At once, this is a
grim movie, but also a hopeful
film.
And the thing I like
best about this movie,
besides the
interesting plot twist,
is the architecture
of the film itself--
the cathedrals, the
cities, the room
where the scientist lives in.
It's all filled with
amazing amounts of detail
that the filmmakers just did
a great job of putting in.
>>DYER: Yeah.
Once they discover their
source, once they discover
the principle of life,
as you mentioned,
they ascended to heaven.
And we see this
scene where it rains.
So presumably, the spirits that
have ascended, it sends a rain,
and we see vegetation
spring back.
So the principle
of life, actually,
finally comes back, which has
been missing this whole time.
And I think that's
a great message.
>>WEIDNER: That is right.
That's exactly right.
That's what happened
in King Arthur.
When he's rejuvenated,
the rains come back,
and the kingdom grows.
And that's what happens here.
That is the ultimate alchemy,
is to take the darkness
and turn it into light,
to turn it into life.
And that's what happens
at the end of this film.
>>DYER: My takeaway from this
is that we have two children's
films that tell us
vast allegorical truths
about the history, origins,
and the destiny of man.
They function as a
warning about tech.
And I think that
ultimately, what we
see is the secret
to our existence
can be found in our
origin, in our creator.
And then that will
also give us a map
to avoid the many,
many cycles in the past
that we've seen
throughout history.
Oswald Spengler
talked about history
as a constant cycle
of man's failures.
And I think that if we
can learn from history,
as Santayana said,
the philosopher,
if we can learn from history,
we can avoid those mistakes,
and we can have a bright future.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
I think it was HG
Wells who said,
"History is a race between
education and disaster."
And I think that's what
these movies are also about,
is trying to educate
us as to what
these potential disasters in
the dystopian future will be
and how to avoid them.
>>DYER: Join us again next
time on "Hollywood Decoded."
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>WEIDNER: And I'm Jay Weidner.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]